# Seminar-On-Sentiment-Analysis
Sentiment analysis uses the NLP for knowing the sentiment of a sentence.Sentiment analysis refers to the task of natural language processing to determine whether a piece of text contains some subjective information and what subjective information it expresses, i.e., whether the attitude behind this text is positive, negative or neutral. Understanding the opinions behind usergenerated content automatically is of great help for commercial and political use, among others. The task can be conducted on different levels, classifying the polarity of words, sentences or entire documents. In this report, we will discuss about the sentiment analysis ,the type of sentiment analysis,its applications and how it will be done. we don’t only want to know that people are talking about our brand we also want to know ,how are they talking about it if they have positive view with the sentimental analysis we can know about the emotions of the people that’s why it can be called emotion A.I or opinion mining.
Sometimes users give their view in a sarcastic tone for eg: “my camera has a battery life of 1 hour ,the battery life of my camera is very good.” This is a sarcastic tone and ofcourse it is a negative view but how can a computer can understand it ?,sometimes it is hard for humans too. So to avoid the problem of sarcastic sentences we will use deep learning.so in deep learning the computer tries to mimic the human brain.so the sarcastic sentences are not common in customer review but it is common in political issues.and other then sarcastic sentences there are spam opinion issues ,it means that some rival company some perticularily for bad image of the organization ,so to avoid this we shold notice the behavior of opinion makers.so for this we will use data mining. so sentiment analysis is a part of data mioning too. there are also phrases and idioms, e.g., cost someone an arm and a leg. Sentiment words and phrases are instrumental to sentiment analysis for obvious reasons. A list of such words and phrases is called a sentiment lexicon (or opinion lexicon). Over the years, researchers have designed numerous algorithms to compile such lexicons.
Understanding people’s emotions is essential for businesses since customers are able to express their thoughts and feelings more openly than ever before. By automatically analyzing customer feedback, from survey responses to social media conversations, brands are able to listen attentively to their customers, and tailor products and services to meet their needs.
